Bug-fixing competition:
So you've gone so far as to download the compo version of NTAngband?
Good for you.  Here's how the competition will work.
First of all, what's wrong?  Well, if you try to go downstairs into the Cave,
the game does funny things like crash.  For that matter, if you go downstairs
into any other dungeon, the game does funny things.  The idea here is to find
some way to fix this problem.  Now, there are really two events, and so there
will be two Mithril* medalists, two Mallorn* medalists, and two Gold medalists.
    The first event is the straight hack event based on speed.  The 
fastest fix wins, even if it is really inefficient, unreadable, or breaks
some other part of the game.  The only thing you must make sure it does is
allow for separate dungeon lists for each dungeon and get rid of the annoying
crashing upon entering dungeons.  
    The second event is the well-written code event based on quality.  In this
case, I'm the judge.  All decisions are final.  I'll leave this event open for
the next three months so that high-quality code can be sent in.  What I want
in this event is a fix of the crash-upon-entry bug described above.  However,
this fix must be clearly written, with ample documentation (preferably in 
comment form), not cause any other bugs, be reasonably efficient (that's not
my main goal, though), and fix exactly what's wrong.  I want you to send with
it a description of what you did and where the code croaked.  Extra points
to anyone who can tell me why it crashed.  The method of scoring is below.

(circle one from each category below)
Clearly written?	1	2	3	4


Documentation?		1	2	3	4


No side effects?	1	2	3	4


Efficient?		1	2


Precise?		1	2	3	4	5


Why?			1	2	3

The maximum is 4+4+4+2+5+3, which equals 22.  In the event of a tie, the
person who entered the solution first wins.  In the event that they arrive
simultaneously, they both get medals.  

[*]  Yeah, so what if this is NTAngband?  And what's wrong with a Mallorn
medal?  Is there some law against wooden medals?