[This file will be updated]

Currently Langband is not anywhere close to being to finished and it
is barely working.  It can be loaded and you may attempt to move
around somewhat and you might be killed by over-aggressive monsters. 

You need:

  - A decent computer and system
    Linux, fast enough and with a decent amount of memory
    
  - CMU Common Lisp
    There exists a decent package for Debian

Might be used:

  - Allegro Common Lisp
    is not active dev-platform anymore due to license

  - Lispworks on Linux
    Should work fairly well.

  - Lispworks on Win32
    May have problems, and has not been tested recently.  See FAQ for
    more info on the Win32 port.

  - SBCL (on Linux)
    Should work fairly well, make sure you get v0.7.7 or newer.

  - CLISP
    is a bit tricky to get working, see the FAQ for more info
    
How to start it:

  - run ./configure
    You might want to check ./configure --help for options on Unix.
    Windows/Cygwin-users can just use ./configure

  - run 'make'
    Where make is GNU Make
    
  - start your lisp and get a prompt for the two following commands:
  
  - (load "vanilla")
    loads/compiles the core engine and the vanilla variant

  - (langband)
    runs vanilla variant in SDL, 800x600 resolution and in windowed mode

  The full signature of the function is:

  (langband :ui "sdl" :size :800x600 :full-screen nil)

  To do 1024x768 in full-screen try:

  (langband :size :1024x768 :full-screen t)

  Development is mainly done in 800x600 so other resolutions may not be optimal.

  - Use (quit) in CMUCL/SBCL/LW/CLISP or (exit) in ACL to quit afterwards.

  [If you use the Langband Debian-packages, see README.Debian
   for starting-details.]

How to play:

  Create a character, the details do not matter at this stage so
  anything will do.  You will eventually find yourself (the @) in a
  town, but currently no shops work and silly messages are printed now
  and then.  Move around the character with the arrowkeys or the
  numpad. Other keys:
  
    > - go down a stair
    < - go up a stair
    C - show the character facts
    d - drop an item to the ground
    e - show worn equipment
    E - eat something
    f - fire a missile
    g - get an item from the ground
    i - show backpack equipment
    o - open all surrounding doors
    p - invoke a spell (not working)
    q - quaff a potion
    Q - quit the game (will kill the character and any savefile)
    r - read a scroll
    s - search area
    S - save the game (save-file in ~/.angband/langband/ will be used on restart)
    u - use an item
    w - wear an item from backpack
   ^X - Save and exit the game. 

  See also docs/help/keys.txt and the actual code in variants/vanilla/config/keys.lisp
  
What to do on crash or bugs:

  See the docs in the web/ directory.  An undocumented feature is the
  GAME-LOOP& function which might in some cases be called if an
  already working game has given you the lisp-prompt and you have
  fixed any problems.  This is mainly of use to me at this stage
  though. 

Known bugs:
  - Windows port does not support TTF-fonts
  - Windows port does not use sounds/audio
  - See also list on Sourfeforge

Docs:

  See the docs/-directory.  

