Path: rpi!batcomputer!caen!math.ohio-state.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!yeshua.marcam.com!zip.eecs.umich.edu!destroyer!news.itd.umich.edu!virgil.ccs.itd.umich.edu!mblaise
From: mblaise@virgil.ccs.itd.umich.edu (Michael David Hayden)
Newsgroups: rec.games.roguelike.angband
Subject: Re: Wheee! Monks Added!
Date: 13 Oct 1993 22:26:05 GMT
Organization: University of Michigan
Lines: 67
Message-ID: <29hv9t$2ah@terminator.rs.itd.umich.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: virgil.ccs.itd.umich.edu
Xref: rpi rec.games.roguelike.angband:381

Summary: 
Expires: 
~References: <29h8b5$jjq@usenet.rpi.edu> <29hjnf$rbv@usenet.rpi.edu> <29hmso$a4c@news.utdallas.edu> <29hsiu$4an@usenet.rpi.edu>
~Sender: 
Followup-To: 
Distribution: world
Organization: U of Michigan, Ann Arbor
Keywords: 


Well, I've got an idea that might make the character harder to code, but
would lead to some really fascinating possibilities, and make it a HELLUVA
lot more playable.  And the idea is: differing martial arts styles.

The way it would work is that the monks would have their own set of 'spell'
books.  (I use the word 'spell' very loosely because it doesn't give the
right conotation but *is* easily recognized.)  Each of the 4 basic books
would contain 1 to 3 styles, each with appropriate bonuses and penalties.
For example:

Book 1:
  Judo - good AC bonuses, no to-hit or damage modifiers
  Boxing - good damage bonus, mild AC penalty
  Wrestling - excellent damage, bonus to bashing, but severe AC penalt
 
Book 2:
  Karate - excellent damage, possible criticals, no AC modifier
  Savate - excellent damage (better than Karate), mild AC penalty
  Capeoira - good damage, mild AC bonus, chance to confuse opponent

Book 3:
  Choi Li Fut - good damage and AC, possible criticals
  Aikido - excellent AC bonus, mild damage penalty
  
Book 4:
  Thai Kick Boxing - fantastic damage, good AC, bonus to Speed
  Tae Kwon Do - excellent AC and damage bonuses, bonus to Speed

Then for artifact books, you could have:
 
Book of the Ninja - stealth, perception, disarm bonuses

Book of the Blade - styles for using bladed weapons; Fencing and Kenjutsu

Book of Meditations - standard healing spells that priest class has

Book of the Scribe - more advance knowledge spells, identify, etc.

Book of the Elements - elemental attacks like someone else has already
   suggested


Of course, all this implies that there should be another store in the Town
level called 'the Dojo'.  It would carry the four basic books, robes, clubs,
quarterstaffs, healing herbs, some scrolls, etc.
 
Like I said, all this would be very hard to stick into the already very
crowded code, but it should make for an extremely playable class.  To make
it more feasible, you could add yet ANOTHER class, the Assassin, and bring
the monk, assassin, and rogue all under the same umbrella, all using the
Dojo for their special store.
 
Just my 2 yen.

Mike Hayden
University of Michigan


