
---- Release 0.1 ----

Added ``Mutant'' race:
    
    Str: -5
    Int: +5
    Wis: +4
    Dex: -1
    Con: -3
    Chr: -5

    Each stat is also adjusted by plus or minus one.

    Resist Chaos, and one of:
	a) Poison
	b) Blind
	c) Acid
	d) Electricity
	e) Fear

Added ``Corrupted'' class:

    Str: -5
    Int: +5
    Wis: +5
    Dex: -5
    Con: -10
    Chr: -5

    The ``Corrupted'' get a new set of spells vaguely based on the
Illusionist spells, although the spells are more powerful.
They can gain spells at any time, but the spell gained is random. 
The ``Corrupted'' books can't be bought, sold, or found.
Instead, a random book is received every 5 levels. If your race
is other than a ``Mutant'', all your stats are reduced at the same time.
The ``Corrupted'' cannot wield any weapon or wear any armor comfortably.
They also have twice as much mana as the other classes. All in all, 
this class is designed to be played without ANY weapons or armor.

Added ``Neuter'' sex. (For the Mutant class, ``Neuter Elf'' sounds pretty
ridiculous.)

---- Release 0.2 ----

Added a building for the Corrupted class.

Added new terrain -- chaos fog.

Added two new spells -- wall_to_chaos, chaos_destroy_area.

Added bad side effects when Corrupted spells fail.

It's possible to place chaos fog in vaults -- use 'F'.

Added alchemy. You can now find alchemical ingredients in the dungeon and
alchemy shop. You can use the ``$'' command to combine one or more
ingredients together. When the right recipe is used, you can get something
good. If you try to make something above your level, you'll fail and
get a side effect. Note that almost all recipes use 3 ingredients, and
the recipes are fixed for every game. Also note that the recipes
are not random and follow a rudimentary pattern, so that you can
build on top of your alchemical knowledge.

Added memory for alchemical recipes, under the ``general knowledge''
command. When the right recipe is used, even if it fails, the recipe
is remembered. Each character starts with a couple randomly known
recipes.

Added pets. They don't ever attack the player, and can fight other
monsters. The pets are downright vicious -- they track other monsters 
(somewhat stupidly) and cast spells at other monsters. Pets will act 
independently of the player, chasing other monsters on their own.
Regular monsters keep their old behavior, i.e. chase the player exclusively.
The player can't attack his pet hand-to-hand, and casting damaging spells
on the pet will cause the pet to turn on the player.
The pets choose their spells carefully, and will not hurt the
player, but will nonetheless cast bolt and breath attacks at other
monsters. Monsters killed by pets give full experience, as if
the player physically killed the monster.

Breeder pets breed more pets, and summoners summon more pets.

Note that pets disappear along with other monsters when the 
player leaves the level. 

Also note that pets don't act if the player isn't around. This
is the normal angband behavior for all monsters, and changing it 
would be slow and unbalancing.

Added new command -- ``#''. This will attract your pet's 
attention, and ``un-attract'' it if the pet is currently paying attention.
This works for all pets at the same time.
This will also aggravate monsters.
Use this command frequently to steer your pets around. (They tend to get
stuck frequently.)

---- Release 0.3 ----

Changed scroll ``flavor names'' to be readable. Now they sound like
real words. (Albeit non-english.)

Here are some examples from my save game:

forevsarok sunasha heripe ridela solulkupayd nelgausabyt tursaksawed
binite nejodal wergizun petunataz medalatem munoxa manabaman rosodo solisha
kligausakis mikodo bieranuval nisume redausa skiarze medevsarok nesisha
beko cosiona binaga fridionaplex seeinin xipe shuorne seearze sanala ninany
denornenej satagamil tuelorne tabornebar credishasna bekinge snolelapod 
binulkumar banasha sneypejor rolargo milyerge toxyergether tiliona rhovargo
satoode hereshe vlygumebek joreshebin dokuru rogeepe

Added a new class -- Beastmaster.
These are fighters who can summon pets. (Based on charisma).

    Str: +5
    Int: -10
    Wis: 0
    Dex: +5
    Con: 0
    Chr: +5

You can summon a finite amount of pets every 50', using the ``m''
command. (For consistency with the spellcasters.)

Added a display if the player is currently attracting pets.

Added a Scroll of Summon Pet.

---- Release 0.4 ----

Added religions. You can find altars in dungeons, and use the "O" command
to sacrifice something. The more you sacrifice, the better your standing
with your god. Eventually you will get many bonuses. If you neglect to
sacrifice, your standing will gradually go down, until you get many bad
things happening to you. Once you pick a god, it is hard to switch, so
don't sacrifice at just any altar. There are currently 16 gods.

Added new option -- ``show_pet_messages''. Turn this off if you
don't want the screen to get flooded with messages from pets.

Added sacred and hated monsters. Depending on your religion, certain
monsters are sacred to your god. Killing them will cause your god
to retaliate. (By shooting blasts from the sky, of course.) Killing
a despised monster will give you triple exp.

Info on a monster's relation to your religion will show up in the
monster recall.

---- Release 0.5 ----

Fixed bugs with pet movements, and you also won't get exp for killed pets
anymore.

Added new race, ``Ghost''.
Ghosts start at around 5000', so beware! They can also pass through walls,
they have natural permanent light, speed +10, telepathy, and
a full map of each level.
They do not need a special building to learn spells.
They cannot use ``Word of Recall''.


    Str: +2
    Int: +2
    Wis: +3
    Dex: +3
    Con: +2
    Chr: -15


Added a command-line interface, by which I mean that most game commands
can now be typed as strings while inside the game. To access this, type
a single quote and type in your command. To get a list of all commands,
press a single quote and type ``help''.
You can press TAB for command completion.

Using the sacrificing commands while not on an altar shows you
info on your god, like what types of monsters are aligned with your god.

You can now find ``open'' dungeons, like the ones in Zangband -- i.e. 
the space between rooms is not rock, but floor, water, chaos fog, etc.

Added new race -- Munchkin. Warning: This class is strictly for cheaters!

Munchkins get +15 to all stats, pass-through-wall, permanent light,
+10 speed, telepathy, and a full map for each level. They automatically
identify every item on the floor. They also get a bunch of great items
every 50'. They don't need a building to gain spells, they start around
2500', and finally they gain levels very quickly. Also, the option
``cheat_live'' is set automatically.

Gods will never punish you while you are in town.

The One Ring will now grant you munchkinish powers.

You can now find dungeons which simulate the wilderness. These are
based on the ``plasma'' fractal, so they are quite realistic. 
(Considering the resolution is so low.) 

Added my own personal ``feature'' and ``color'' pref files for X11
to ``user.prf''.

---- Release 0.6 ----

If you have high charisma, low-level monsters sacred to your religion
will be generated automatically as ``pets''. Note that these pets do NOT
count towards your total count of pets. These pets do not appear next
to you but are scattered throughout the dungeon like normal monsters.
This provides an incentive to worship gods with lots of sacred monsters.

Replaced the battle-scarred veteran with the ``Town Guardsman''.

Added another fighter-derivative class -- Lycanthrope. You can use
the ``m'' command to turn yourself into a killing machine for a while.
Beware -- while turned you cannot use armor. (Plus you aggravate monsters.)

Added another race -- Golem. 

   Str:   +20
   Int:     0
   Wis:   -10
   Dex:   -10
   Con:    10
   Cha:     0

These get resist fear, resist confusion, absolutely MASSIVE damage bonuses,
and -10 speed. This really shifts the balance to make group monsters
extremely tough. (i.e. A level two golem warrior can kill a hardened
warrior in a couple turns, but gets devastated by cave spiders.)

Added two new monster flags -- ``INNOCENT'' means that Guards will
be summoned if the monster is killed.
``INSTAPET'' means the monster will always be generated as a pet.

The appropriate town monsters are now flagged ``INNOCENT'' and ``INSTAPET''.
Beware of killing the town guardsmen, as this could set off a nasty
``chain reaction''!

Added another race -- Leprechaun.

   Str: -20
   Int:   0
   Wis:   6
   Dex:  20
   Con: -10
   Chr: -10

They get sustain dexterity and resist blind. 
As special distinguishing characteristics, they have speed +10 and
cause strange things to happen when attacking monsters. (Try it to see
what I mean.)

Added a new item flag -- ``WEIRD_ATTACK'' to grant weird attacks (like
with the Leprechaun) when wielded. Added two types of ego items --
``of Insanity'' and ``of the Jesters'' to provide this flag.

Added three artifacts to take advantage of ``WEIRD_ATTACK'' --
The Scythe 'Abominator'
The Quarterstaff 'Laughingstock'
The Dagger 'Pestilence'

Changed so that all intelligent monsters have the ``SMART'' flag set.

Added customizable insults from smart monsters. Smart monsters
will print a random insult from the ``insult.txt'' file.
(Stolen from Zangband)

Added silly messages when spells fail. These messages are gotten from
``sfail.txt''.

---- Release 0.7 ----

Added yet another race -- ``Death Mold''.

+20 to all stats, resist nether and nexus. Death molds cannot move.
Pressing an arrow key will first try to ``alter'' that terrain; 
Otherwise a ``phase door'' will be cast. Pressing the period
(run) key will bring up a menu of some special commands. Once
one of these is used, you have to wait a fixed amount of turns
before using these again.

Changed default options to my own preferences. 

Changed the game so that different races have different 
colors / symbols. That means that, i.e. a mutant is a purple `Q', 
an elf is a white `h', a half-orc is an `o', etc.

I know this is breaking a fundamental roguelike law, but I think
this is much better.

Changed the semantics of ``hallucinations''. Now you will get
useless descriptions of monsters and objects. (Gotten from
the silly.txt and silly_it.txt files.)

Added new flag, ``RANDOM_NAME'', which will prepend a random name
(gotten from ``mon_name.txt'') to the monster race name.
i.e. ``Foobar, the Village Idiot'' instead of ``the Village Idiot''.
These names are constant for a monster lifetime.

Set ``RANDOM_NAME'' for all humanoids. 

Note: The ``mon_name.txt'' included is a list of (mostly) randomly
generated names. 

Killing a monster will cause all other monsters in your LOS to
be awoken. 

Added a generalized shape-shifting mechanism. That means that a player
can assume one of the special shapes for a short while. Note that
it is impossible to wear armor while shape-shifted. While shifted,
the ``Title'' line on the main screen will show the name of your
current shape within square brackets. 

Added new option, ``race_chars'' to toggle whether the special race
player symbols get displayed.

Added 25, yes, 25 possible shapes to shift into. 
They are:
  Aboination, Wolf, Ghost, Insect, Goat, Ape, Statue, Chaos cloud, Sparrow,
  Kobold, Fire cloud, Cold cloud, Dragon, Hound, Vampire, Quylthulg, Angel,
  Serpent, Mana ball, Giant, Spider, Mold, Zombie, and Deity.

Note: When in the Quylthulg form, the ``m'' command is overridden to summon
pets, like a beastmaster!

You can use the debugging command ``control-a-shift-s''
to change into any shape. 

Added vampirism (Note: not related to Zangband) and levitation.

Added two new item flags -- 'FLYING', to grant levitation, and
'VAMPIRISM', to grant vampirism.

Added two new ego items -- Boots of Levitation, and Weapon of Vampirism.

Added new artifact -- The Scimitar of Undeath

Added new class -- ``Mimic''. A mimic is a class that takes advantage
of the shape-shifting code. You can now find books in the dungeon --
one for each shape. Using the ``m'' command on the book will try
to change into the shape corresponding to the book.

Added several potions to change the player's shape. Note that the 
more useful shapes cannot be achieved by potions.

---- Release 0.8 ----

Added gory messages in ``dam_*.txt'' files. When a monster is hit, 
instead of ``You hit foo'', there is now a more colorful message --
ex. ``You twist foo's leg!''. These are purely cosmetic.

Added some new monsters. Among them -- mutants, beastmasters, and
the infamous It.

Added readable scrolls. (Parchments) These will display a specific 
``book-*.txt'' file when read. 

---- Release 0.9 ----

Streamers will not mess up vaults anymore.

Added ``Themed vaults''. These are vaults that have a specific
``theme'' to them -- i.e. Dragon Lair, Orc Cave, Undead Laboratory, etc.
These have a much higher chance of appearing than regular vaults --
there is a flat chance of one being generated for any level.
These have been added to the end of v_info.txt.

You won't anger your God anymore when your pet kills a sacred creature.

Pet breathers won't turn on each other anymore. This makes hounds & such
viable pets again.
 
If the player is heavily damaged then sacred monsters will act differently --
if the sacred monster is smart, it will run away. Unintelligent monsters
will attack the player once and then will be punished by the God.

The `g' and `,' commands have been changed for immovable characters.
`g' will try to pick up objects on the ground, and `,' will activate
phase door. This means death molds can teleport when surrounded by
monsters. 

The `teleport-to' spell has been made more liberal -- you can now
teleport onto shops, stairs, quests, and items. 

When a Ghost character reaches the town level, he is granted the
ability to use word-of-recall. (i.e. WoR scrolls can be used.)

Persistent dungeons have been added. This is now an option on the
character creation screen. Note that levels are NOT saved to disk,
only the RNG seed is saved. Item and monster generation and player
memory is not persistent!

Made spell failure chances for Corrupted alot smaller.

---- Release 1.0 ----

Removed the minimum spell failure chance restriction for Corrupted.

Made side effects alot less dangerous.

Monsters will now hunt down pets if they can't see the player.
Note: This introduces a slight performance loss.

Added a new option, ``confirm_blasphemy'', that will prompt you
in case you try to attack a sacred monster. This goes under
the ``Disturbance'' menu.

Made pets more intelligent when tracking the player.

COMPLETELY reworked Corrupted spells. There are no more books,
instead you get a new random spell each level. The spell effects are
also random! 

To rename your Corrupted powers: when selecting or browsing a power,
press '/' then the letter of the power, then type the new name.

Potions and flasks will now explode when thrown or destroyed.
(A side effect of this is that a potion of death becomes an extremely
powerful weapon.)

If you are in very high favor with your god, you will be resurrected if
you die -- however, you will lose all your experience, and your stats
will be lowered permanently.

Added two new options -- ``allow_open_levels'', which toggles whether
open levels are generated, and ``cripple_pets'', which will forbid
summoning unique pets.

Stairs will now be generated at the player's location even on a 
flooded level.

Ghosts now start on a stair.

Added three more options, ``allow_theme_vaults'', which toggles
generation of theme vaults, ``weirdness_is_rare'', which makes open
levels and themed vaults rarer, and finally ``named_monsters'', which
toggles naming of humanoid monsters.

Changed special powers for death molds a bit -- it is now possible
to use your powers prematurely if you are willing to lose some
mana/health.

Changed movement for death molds -- now instead of teleporting
randomly, you will teleport somewhere to the direction you pressed on
the keyboard. This makes it possible to navigate through a corridor.

Added a new type of open level -- this one looks a bit like the whole
level has been destroyed, and then the rooms have been built.


---- Release 1.1 ----

Changed corrupted spells once again. Now the most of the spells will
be offensive ones. Also, offensive spells will now be named automatically.

The size of the monster race array has been increased to 32 bit capacity.
The reason for this is to allow more monster flags, as well as to 
remove the extremely annoying monster number limit. This is supposed to
break compatibility on 16 bit machines, though.

Enlarged the arena, and split it into 3 different monster sets based
on monster type. You can select the monster set you want when you
enter the arena. (Idea thanks to prfnoff@aol.com)

Different types of weapons now act differently. First of all, many monsters
resist or are immune to particular weapon types. Second of all, sword
and polearm damage is now more random, while hafted weapons will affect 
monsters in weird ways on critical hits.

The monster attacks that used to be player-only (i.e. Mind Blast, Brain Smash,
Confuse, Fear, etc.) are now breath/bolt attacks. 

Added mutations, similar to Zangband. Note that none of the mutations
have activations, though some of them are spontaneously activated.
The mutations are about equally split between good and bad.
There are currently 66 different mutations.
You can view your mutations under the knowledge menu.

Mutants will now start with several mutations, though you won't
gain any when you gain levels.

Getting breathed on by chaos can now give you mutations, if you don't
resist chaos.

Added new monsters -- mutant kobolds.

Monsters won't fire/breathe at each other anymore.

Character dumps will now include a list of mutations, and the list
of Corrupted powers.

Added a potion of mutation.

Town guardsmen will now leave from the guard tower when you commit a
crime instead of appearing around you.

---- Release 1.2 ----

Added Yet Another random artifact scheme. This one is a little different
as random artifacts are ``miscellaneous'' magic items that have a
high chance of being nasty ``junk'' items. You cannot wield random
artifacts, but you can activate them even if it is not identified.

Added another stat, ``Sanity''. This acts like hitpoints for the most
part -- the most notable exception is that the only way to cure 
insanity is to drink a potion. You cannot cure insanity by resting.
Some monsters and magical attacks damage sanity instead of hitpoints.
If your sanity goes down below zero, you die.
You also get bonuses to sanity from high wisdom.

Added a Scroll of Recipe.

Totally revamped spell handling. There is now only one spellbook
for each class. The spells are now initialized from s_info.txt when
a new character is created. Note that there is no s_info.raw file,
as the character's spells are stored in the savefile.
Also note that the s_info.txt in version 1.2 should be
rewritten so that each class has it's own spellbook; There will
also be playbalance problems. In the future the s_info.txt will
be improved.

Mimics are now tougher fighters, and will start with the Book of
Sparrow.

Ghosts will now lose their ``ghostlike'' abilities when they reach
surface.

All recipes are now possible.

Added a new option to turn off flavored attack messages.

Added a Potion of Cure Mutation

Added the facility to ask your god for favors. Use ``p'' to pray, and
if your status is high enough you will get a reward. Note that if you
try to pray too often, you'll get really bad results!

(Note that priests will now use the ``m'' command to cast spells)

Priests and paladins will have a slightly higher chance of getting
better results from prayer.

Priests can pray about twice as much as other classes,
and Paladins about 1.5 times as much.

You can now see how likely your prayers are to be answered in the
priest building.

There is now a new option, ``confirm_prayers'', that will ask for 
confirmation when the player attempts to pray.

Completely revamped the vault/town/quest code. This was mainly done 
for code cleanup/maintainability, but there are some side-effects.

Most notably:

1. The town layout is now gotten from the v_info.txt. There is no limit
   on the number of town layouts there could be -- one will always be
   chosen at birth.
2. Arena layouts are generated the same way as town layouts are generated.
3. Quests are now REQUIRED to include a special level. i.e. There are no
   more ``kill x foo'' quests. 
4. Any quest can be requested at any time, though you can only have one
   quest at a time.
5. The building commands and prices have been changed. In particular,
   rumors have been implemented, the Weaponsmaster now costs more, but
   is open to everyone. You always have access to your home now.
   In general, you don't have to wait a certain time period to access
   building rewards.
6. The ``q_info.txt'' has been removed. All quest information is stored
   in v_info.txt


The message system has been improved. There is now a ``priority'' to
every message. Currently, the following priorities have been implemented:

``Temporary'', will not register in message recall.
``Normal'',    shows the message in white.
``Warning'',   shows the message in light green.
``Urgent'',    shows the message in yellow.
``Deadly'',    player is in high risk of death, red.
``Bonus'',     player has just been rewarded, light blue
``Big Bonus'', player has just been rewarded really well, blue
``Stupidity alert'', player has just done something stupid, purple.

There is now a concept of a ``monster generator''. That is, certain
locations will generate unlimited numbers of monsters when activated.
This is how guard towers in the town work.

---- Release 1.3 ----

Completely reworked the spell routines, yet again. Now all spells are
projectable -- for example, it is possible to cast a ball of identify
on a room of items, or confuse every monster in your field of view, etc.
The possibilities are pretty much endless since you can match any spell
effect with any spell projection. This also means that it will be
possible in the future to store item activations in a *_info.txt file.

Added a spellbook for the rogue and the ranger. The paladin still has
the priest spellbook.

Added several new neat spells -- for example, casting Word of Recall
on an item fetches that item, and casting WoR on a monster will teleport
the monster to the player.

Added individual monster sayings. You can specify lines for the
monster to speak by using the X: field in the r_info.txt. Note
that currently there are only a few monster sayings.
You can use Y: to reuse sayings in a different monster race.

---- Release 1.4 ----

Added a new class -- Vampire. Vampires can't eat and get hurt by
light. The only way to get food is to attack a monster hand-to-hand.
Vampires also have a new spell realm -- ``Dark Magic''.
Note that vampire spells use CON as the spellcasting stat!

Added two new town layouts.

Increased the height of the dungeon by 22 grids. (i.e. now the dungeon
is 88x198)

It is now possible to choose the town/arena layout when starting
a new game.

Added some new options:
wiz_lite_town -- Magically light the town.
monsters_speak -- Allow monsters speech ability.
confirm_crime -- Ask for confirmation when player tries to commit a crime.
unfair_monsters -- Allow unfair monsters to be generated -- i.e. Mutants
                   and Brain Maggots, for now. You can select which monsters
		   should be ``unfair'' by using the ``UNFAIR'' flag in the
		   r_info.txt file. Note that quest and vault generation
		   will NOT be affected by this option.

You can now save your options in a pref file.

The overhead map view is now zoomable.

Added spell descriptions. When you select a spell with the (b)rowse
command, you'll get a short description.

Added activations for shape-changes. Note that the way this is handled
is different from other variants -- your powers are added to your 
spell-list, and you need mana to use your powers. Fighters and other
non-magical classes now have mana points that are not shown unless
you have some spells to cast. 

Monsters are now affected by traps. 

You can now add new ego items by simply editing the e_info.txt, without
editing the source. 

Artifact and ego-item generation has been tweaked -- there is now a scroll
of ego-item and artifact creation. A scroll of named artifact creation 
(like Nethack) is a possibility.

---- Release 1.5 ----

All artifact and item activations are now in the s_info.txt file!
That means you can add completely new artifacts or items without changing 
the code. 

Added a nasty surprise at low depths. :)

Changed the object and inventory system to use linked-lists instead of
arrays. This means that stacks of objects on the ground are now handled exactly
the same way the inventory is, and there is no more limit on the number of
items you can carry. To compensate for this, the weight limit that you can 
safely carry has gone down much lower -- it now pays off to carry collections
of potions and wands, instead of a full set of armor.
 
Added 10 more gods. These are more rare than the standard set of gods, and
will only appear infrequently on higher levels.

Added a bard class. This class is mostly identical to the illusionist,
except that it uses charisma as the spellcasting stat.
(Big thanks to Derrick Creamer, DSCreamer@aol.com for writing the spells.)

Changed the code for random artifacts. Now the activation is chosen 
randomly from all the activations in the s_info.txt file.

Added a few more terrains for outdoor settings. For now they don't have
any game-play significance, although the terrain level generation
has been changed to use them.

You can now have the new terrains and altars in vaults. 

Added a new town layout and a couple more theme vaults.

The ``other_query_flag'' option will automatically select the item
if there is only one possible item you can select. This is primarily
for people who use autopickup.

Added a new option ``protect_equipment'', which will ensure that wielded
items won't get destroyed or stolen.

Changed the monster generation routines:

- Aquatic monsters have been implemented. Any monster with the AQUATIC
  flag can be generated on terrain or flooded levels.

- The rules for monster nests/pits have been relaxed. It is now possible
  to have a pit or nest of any type of monster.

- Occasionally groups or related or unrelated monsters will be generated,
  even if the monster doesn't normally appear in groups.

Added a bunch of of aquatic monsters.

Aquatic monsters will be invisible when they are in deep water and
are relatively far away from the player.

---- Release 1.6 ----

Added item hitpoints. Every item has some number of hitpoints, and all
attacks that damage inventory will decrease the item's hitpoints instead
of outright destroying it. Artifacts will never get damaged.

Weapon and armor will get damaged out with use! The damage your weapon
takes is roughly equal to the amount of damage you do to the monster.
Likewise, the damage to your armor is roughly equal to the damage you
take. 

Added corpses. Monster will now sometimes leave body parts when they die.
There are many different body types -- heads, hearts, wings, scales, etc.
Also, you can find body parts just laying in the dungeon like regular
items. Body parts will only be generated on appropriate monsters, (that 
is, no orc wings of death mold heads) but other than that, any
non-unique monster except ghosts and elementals can leave a corpse.

The beastmaster building now keeps a list of bounties. You can trade
corpses of monsters on the beastmaster's list for gold. The list will be
refreshed with the same frequency as shops do.

Added a new class -- the Necromancer. The Necromancer is a spellcasting
class with just one spell -- raise dead. If you have a corpse, you can put
it on the floor and cast ``raise dead'' on it. If you are successful, the
corpse will be turned into a pet.

The get_random_line function has been rewritten to store the file in
memory instead of opening the file and reading from it each time a random
line from the file is requested. This means that character generation,
monster names, hallucination, etc. should be significantly faster. (At the
expense of memory usage.)

Large number of bugs has been fixed. 

There is now an st_info.txt file, which controls what items get generated
in which stores and at what frequencies. Code written by Laurence Withers.

Added a simple ``quest monster'' type quest. The beastmaster will select
one monster as a ``quest monster'' whenever the bounty list gets updated.
If you then return a set number of corpses of that monster to the
beastmaster, you'll get a reward. Be careful -- if you are collecting
corpses and the quest monster changes, you won't get any reward for your
hard work.

---- Release 1.7 ----

Added a new option, ``artifact_damage'' which will cause artifacts to take
damage like regular items, albeit 10 times less than normal.

Weapons and armor will now be converted to special ``damaged'' items,
instead of being destroyed.

Added a scroll of item repair.

Added several repairing spells for the rogue.

Added exploding and kamikaze monsters. If you want an exploding monster,
just use ``EXPLODE'' as the monster's attack method.

i.e.

N:1:Will o' the Wisp
I:some stuff
W:some stuff
B:EXPLODE:BLIND:3d6

A very important note: If you want the explosion to have any effect, it
must have a damage field!

Kamikaze monsters have the KAMIKAZE flag; These will disappear once they
make a successful attack on the player.
 
Using the `k' command on the appropriate items will cause them to explode.

Added several exploding types of arrows. These will explode on impact.

The `I' command will now give a simple damage assessment for armor and
weapons.

Shop vaults are back! The implementation is much more clean and refined
than the old hack used to be. (1.5 betas.) Now you can have a real home --
complete with bathroom and fireplace. (Not really, but it comes close.)
You can also take advantage of a limited form of stealing -- if you use an
item without paying for it, guards will be summoned who will try to kill
you. You won't have to pay for it, though. You can also read parchments
without paying for them.

Note that you can turn off use of shop vaults with an option. Shop vaults
default to being turned off.

Added a meaning to social class -- a negative social class means that the
player is a criminal. Guards will be summoned whenever the player enters
the town. If your social class is negative, it will slowly increase
towards 1. Killing townspeople or stealing will dramatically lower your
social class.

Godly anger will now sometimes summon aligned monsters instead of just
blasting you.

Altar bashing has been tweaked. The altar will always be consecrated if
you have not prayed recently. Otherwise you'll get blasted.

Vault descriptions are now run-length compressed. That means about 40K
of memory is saved. (The space taken up by the vault descriptions is about
halved when the compression is used.)

Added 10 more quests. These can be found in the Sorcery Tower.

Improved quest generation -- you can now have a quest overlayed over a
terrain. (Try the first mage quest to see what I mean.)

Objects now have a ``material''. That is, you can now have ``a silver
Short Sword'' or ``10 ebon Arrows of Slaying'' or even ``4 graphite Food
Rations.'' (And no, you can't eat non-organic food.)

Materials affect item hitpoints, weight, and cost. Also, the
``IGNORE_FOO'' flags were removed -- instead, the object's material
determines how/when it will be damaged. 

Objects have about a 10% chance of being generated with a non-standard
material.

Ego-items can be made to be generated with any material.

Added two new spells -- Transmutation and *Transmutation*. Regular
transmutation converts an item's material to some other material,
randomly. The enhanced version copies the material of one object to
another.

The `I' command will show the material the object is made of.

Objects made of organic material will now slowly rot away. 
*Note*: Dragon Scale mail is organic!!

Changed weapon damaging code. First of all, to-hit bonuses don't
contribute to weapon damage, as before. Second of all, warriors damage
their weapon significantly less than other classes as their ``Fighting''
skill goes up. Finally, players with a high strength or monsters with a
high AC will give extra damage to the weapon.

Added a patch from Laurence Withers that adds the ``center_player''
option. (written by Keldon Jones) Shop and building entrances will also
generate light.

--- Release 1.7.5 ---

Added a new option -- ``sort_items''. (Under the ``Efficiency'' menu.)
This will keep all items in a stack sorted by their type.

Item materials will now affect the item's AC.

Added a new option -- ``conserve_slots''. If this is turned on, all
inventory items will be assigned a letter when picked up. You can then
always refer to that item by that letter. Note that if you drop the item
and pick it up again, you'll likely get a new letter assigned.

Items made in shops will now have significantly more hitpoints than
regular items. Also, all items will now have a slightly twiddled number of
hitpoints.

Completing quests will now increase your social class.

--- Release 1.8 ---

Wilderness in the dungeons in now gone -- instead, there is an infinite
scrolling wilderness outside the town. You need to step on the
``wilderness entrance'' tile to reach it. 

Added three friendly monsters by Kewlguy838@aol.com. (Thanks.)

Added the Vortex race suggested by weisiger (jmartin@inreach.com)
This race has all the immunities, an intrinsic light source, gains a
point of speed every two levels, and has a progressively improving
engulf attack, but cannot use any equipment.

Added the Elemental class -- you cannot use any equipment, you gain
resistances as you gain levels, and you can use several breath spells.
The Elemental is meant to be used with the Vortex race.

You can now ask pets to use your target as their target. Simply press
the ``call pets'' key (Normally `#') twice to select  target for your
pets to use. If you switch to a different target, you will not need to
press `#' again -- your pets will switch targets automatically.

Added truly persistent levels, where the whole dungeon can be saved
and loaded later. Currently the only place this functionality is used 
is when a player enters a vault shop.

--- Release 1.9 "Anachron" ---

Added a new class -- the Avatar. Avatars start right from the beginning
worshiping a randomly selected god, and are supposed to put the god's
whims into life. 

That means that an avatar character will occasionally be assigned "fates"
specific to a particular god. A "fate" is an assignment, for example, to
kill or sacrifice a certain monster, collect or use a certain item,
protect a monster from death, etc. There are many different combinations
of fates possible, and if a monster or item is fated to you this will be
clearly shown.

Each god has his/her particular preferences, some quite specific/weird.
For example, Melkor likes to collect rings, the god of wind has a soft 
spot for flying monsters, etc. The particular preferences of each god 
are a state secret. :) 

When a fate is correctly completed, the player's luck rating increases.
Conversely, failing to complete a fate lowers your luck.
Every once in a while, the game will check your luck rating and will
give you a bonus/punish you, depending on what your luck is. Of course,
the bigger your luck, the better your bonus. The lower your luck, the
worse is your punishment. Note, however, that you get punished only if
your luck drops to below zero.

Changed the scoring system to reflect the true state of things. From now
on the dominant factor is the time spent playing, not your character's
level. This means that scorefiles won't accumulate braindead ghost 
beastmasters and such at the top positions.

Now includes a simple help file for the game, "kamband.txt".

Kamband is now registered at sourceforge. (http://kamband.sourceforge.net)

Versions will now have a descriptive label along with a version number,
a la Red Hat. This is great just for the mystification value. :)

--- Release 2.0 "Baalzebub" ---

This is a "playability" release, maning that many annoying and
incorrect things have been fixed; do not expect spectacular new features.

Annoying things have been fixed, too many to list here.

Made the wilderness more interesting and useful to play. Among the many
changes: 

The wilderness now changes from night to day, with lots more
monsters in the nighttime; on the other hand, during the daytime it is now
alot less dangerous. 

Breeders are now hopefully less annoying. 

Added some more wilderness vaults.

The town is now intergrated into the wilderness; in fact, now there is no
more distinction between a town and a wilderness level, and towns are 
generated just like wilderness vaults. This means that the "wilderness
entrance" is gone.

Scrollable terrain is now more logical. (That is, each terrain level is
now always the same no matter how you reach it.) However, terrain levels
still try to neatly tile. (Fit together at the seams.)


--- Release 2.1 "Combustible" ---


Added a whole wealth of new kobolds -- 32 (yes, thirty-two!) new members
of the fine race. The game now includes almost a whole functioning kobold
society -- female, children, adolescent kobolds and even a kobold
intellectual and demigod.

Added 6 new gods, specifically for some monster races. There is currently
a koboldish, orcish, trollish, giantish, demonic and draconian gods.
Note that these gods do not give any bonuses. (Though you'll get
aligned/despised monsters and fates for avatars.)

Kamband finally includes a scripting language.

I'm using Lua, http://www.lua.org, a small, efficient and highly portable 
scripting language. Lua is about 120K when compiled, pure ANSI C code.
It is said to compile on just about any platform that supports
ANSI C. 

All necessary code is included with Kamband, but the Makefiles for 
non-Unix platforms are not yet written. Sorry, I just don't want
to fiddle with something that I don't understand too well.

Note that in this version scripting is not yet used.
I will start writing extension scripts in the next version
when compilation and compatibility problems are taken care of.


