Most files in this directory are use by the get_rnd_line function for various
purposes in the game. They can be edited and customized by the user with any
ascii text editor. If you add / remove lines you should modify the index (the
first line) accordingly. If you set an invalid index or remove the buffer line
weird messages and other things can appear, and you can crash the game. Please
see sample.txt before you try modifying the files.
The a_*.txt and w_*.txt are used when the game generates a random artifact.
However, instead of picking a name from the appropriate file, the game may
form a new name from syllables[].

The following files were added specifically for GSNband: pfear, pshout, dam_*,
sfail, m_rnames, f_rnames, verbs, friendly, monspeak

The following file was removed: mdeath (both monsters and player use
death)

The following files were considerably expanded: bravado, w_high, silly,
rumors. Contributions came from several other variants as well, particularly
Kamband and OAngband.

The files in this directory:

A_CURSED TXT Possible names for randomly generated cursed armour artifacts
A_HIGH   TXT Possible names for randomly generated 'powerful' armour artifacts
A_LOW    TXT Possible names for randomly generated 'weak' armour artifacts
A_MED    TXT Possible names for randomly generated 'medium' armour artifacts
BRAVADO  TXT Possible lines for speaking uniques
CHAINSWD TXT Possible noise for the Chainsword
CRIME    TXT Possible crimes that killed uniques may have committed
DEAD     TXT The tombstone picture (the death screen)
DEATH    TXT Possible 'last words' when the player dies
ELVISH   TXT Syllables for the names of random artifacts
F_RNAMES TXT Random female names for the character
FRIENDLY TXT Possible lines for friendly speaking uniques
ERROR    TXT Possible random error messages (instead of "Type ? for help")
MONFEAR  TXT Possible lines for scared speaking uniques
MONSPEAK TXT Possible lines for uniques
M_RNAMES TXT Random male names for the character
NEWS     TXT The game intro screen
README!      You are reading this file right now
PFEAR    TXT Possible player fear messages (instead of "You're too afraid to
	     attack")
PSHOUT   TXT Possible shouting lines
RUMORS   TXT Possible rumours (for scrolls or rumour and shopkeepers)
SAMPLE   TXT A sample file for the random line selecting function
SFAIL    TXT Sample lines when failing a spell
SILLY    TXT Silly monster names for hallucination
W_CURSED TXT Possible names for randomly generated cursed weapon artifacts
W_HIGH   TXT Possible names for randomly generated 'powerful' weapon artifacts
W_LOW    TXT Possible names for randomly generated 'weak' weapon artifacts
W_MED    TXT Possible names for randomly generated 'medium' weapon artifacts
