Most files in this directory are use by the get_rnd_line function for various
purposes in the game. They can be edited and customized by the user with any
ascii text editor. If you add / remove lines you should modify the index (the
first line) accordingly. If you set an invalid index or remove the buffer line
weird messages and other things can appear, and you can crash the game. Please
see sample.txt before you try modifying the files.
The a_*.txt and w_*.txt are used when the game generates a random artifact.
However, instead of picking a name from the appropriate file, the game may
form a new name from syllables[].

The files in this directory:

a_cursed.txt Possible names for randomly generated cursed armour artifacts
a_high.txt   Possible names for randomly generated 'powerful' armour artifacts
a_low.txt    Possible names for randomly generated 'weak' armour artifacts
a_med.txt    Possible names for randomly generated 'medium' armour artifacts
bravado.txt  Possible lines for speaking uniques
chainswd.txt Possible noise for artefact 85 (currently Demon Blade)
crime.txt    Possible crimes that speaking uniques may have committed
dead.txt     The tombstone picture (the death screen)
death.txt    Possible 'last words' when the player dies
elvish.txt   Syllables for the names of random artifacts
error.txt    Possible random error messages (instead of "Type ? for help")
mondeath.txt Possible 'last words' for speaking uniques
monfear.txt  Possible lines for scared speaking uniques
news.txt     The game intro screen
o_cheat.txt  A text file to be displayed within the "cheat option" menu.
readme!      You are reading this file right now
rumors.txt   Possible rumours (for scrolls or rumour and shopkeepers)
sample.txt   A sample file for the random line selecting function
silly.txt    Silly monster names for hallucination
smeagol.txt  Smeagol lines
smeagolr.txt Smeagol fleeing
spoiler.txt  A text file to be displayed within the "spoiler option" menu.
w_cursed.txt Possible names for randomly generated cursed weapon artifacts
w_high.txt   Possible names for randomly generated 'powerful' weapon artifacts
w_low.txt    Possible names for randomly generated 'weak' weapon artifacts
w_med.txt    Possible names for randomly generated 'medium' weapon artifacts
